README.md, before:

# SHOPPING BASKET REST API

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api) [![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fdd7818f671514fff2e8/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api/maintainability) [![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/11edf48745ef45d58a26b798a419bc35)](https://app.codacy.com/app/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=sendistephen/shopping_basket_api&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Dashboard) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api) [![tested with jest](https://img.shields.io/badge/tested_with-jest-99424f.svg)](https://github.com/facebook/jest) [![jest](https://jestjs.io/img/jest-badge.svg)](https://github.com/facebook/jest)

Shopping Basket is an application that helps users create a list of items they want to buy so that they can keep track of them

## Key Features

-   User can create an account and login
-   User can create,view,update and delete a shopping basket
-   User can create, view update and delete an item from a shopping basket

## Tools

-   [Apiary](https://apiary.io/) - used for documenting the api
-   [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/) - a minimal and flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of features for web and mobile applications.
-   [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) - MongoDB is a document database with the scalability and flexibility of querying and indexing data
-   [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com) - Mongoose is an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB and Node.js
-   [Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/getting-started) - Jest is an open JavaScript testing library from Facebook
-   [Node]() - Node is JavaScript run-time environment that executes JavaScript code outside of a browser

## Getting started

Make sure you have Node.js(v10.16.0), npm(v6.9.0) & mongodb installed on your machine

### Clone this repository and cd into it

```sh
git clone https://github.com/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api.git && cd shopping_basket_api
```

### Install all project dependencies

```sh
npm install
```

### Mongo connection setup

Edit your /config/default.json file to include the correct MongoDB URI

### Setup environment variables

Copy and paste the info below in your terminal respectively

MAC

```sh
export shoppingbasket_secretOrPrivateKey=yoursecretkey
```

WINDOWS

```sh
set shoppingbasket_secretOrPrivateKey=yoursecretkey
```

### Start the Application

```sh
npm run dev  # Runs on http://localhost:9000
```

### To run tests

```sh
npm run test
```

### Working Endpoints

| Endpoint                            | Functionality                                            | Access  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| POST /api/v1/users                  | Registers a User                                         | Public  |
| POST /api/v1/auth                   | Login a user                                             | Public  |
| POST /api/v1/baskets                | Create a new basket                                      | Private |
| GET /api/v1/baskets                 | Get all baskets created by user.                         | Private |
| PUT /api/v1/baskets/:id             | Updates a basket with a given id                         | Private |
| GET /api/v1/baskets/:id/items       | Gets items of a specific basket given its id             | Private |
| POST /api/v1/baskets/:id/items      | Adds items to a specific basket with the given basket id | Private |
| DELETE /api/v1/baskets/:id/item/:id | Deletes an item from the basket                          | Private |
| PUT /api/v1/baskets/:id/item/:id    | Updates a basket item on a given basket                  | Private |

Commit message:

Add link to api documentation

README.md, after:

# SHOPPING BASKET REST API

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api) [![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fdd7818f671514fff2e8/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api/maintainability) [![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/11edf48745ef45d58a26b798a419bc35)](https://app.codacy.com/app/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=sendistephen/shopping_basket_api&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Dashboard) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api) [![tested with jest](https://img.shields.io/badge/tested_with-jest-99424f.svg)](https://github.com/facebook/jest) [![jest](https://jestjs.io/img/jest-badge.svg)](https://github.com/facebook/jest)

Shopping Basket is an application that helps users create a list of items they want to buy so that they can keep track of them

## Documentation
This is the link to the api documentation [here](https://shoppingbasketapi.docs.apiary.io/)

## Key Features

-   User can create an account and login
-   User can create,view,update and delete a shopping basket
-   User can create, view update and delete an item from a shopping basket

## Tools

-   [Apiary](https://apiary.io/) - used for documenting the api
-   [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/) - a minimal and flexible Node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of features for web and mobile applications.
-   [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) - MongoDB is a document database with the scalability and flexibility of querying and indexing data
-   [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com) - Mongoose is an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB and Node.js
-   [Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/getting-started) - Jest is an open JavaScript testing library from Facebook
-   [Node]() - Node is JavaScript run-time environment that executes JavaScript code outside of a browser

## Getting started

Make sure you have Node.js(v10.16.0), npm(v6.9.0) & mongodb installed on your machine

### Clone this repository and cd into it

```sh
git clone https://github.com/sendistephen/shopping_basket_api.git && cd shopping_basket_api
```

### Install all project dependencies

```sh
npm install
```

### Mongo connection setup

Edit your /config/default.json file to include the correct MongoDB URI

### Setup environment variables

Copy and paste the info below in your terminal respectively

MAC

```sh
export shoppingbasket_secretOrPrivateKey=yoursecretkey
```

WINDOWS

```sh
set shoppingbasket_secretOrPrivateKey=yoursecretkey
```

### Start the Application

```sh
npm run dev  # Runs on http://localhost:9000
```

### To run tests

```sh
npm run test
```

### Working Endpoints

| Endpoint                            | Functionality                                            | Access  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| POST /api/v1/users                  | Registers a User                                         | Public  |
| POST /api/v1/auth                   | Login a user                                             | Public  |
| POST /api/v1/baskets                | Create a new basket                                      | Private |
| GET /api/v1/baskets                 | Get all baskets created by user.                         | Private |
| PUT /api/v1/baskets/:id             | Updates a basket with a given id                         | Private |
| GET /api/v1/baskets/:id/items       | Gets items of a specific basket given its id             | Private |
| POST /api/v1/baskets/:id/items      | Adds items to a specific basket with the given basket id | Private |
| DELETE /api/v1/baskets/:id/item/:id | Deletes an item from the basket                          | Private |
| PUT /api/v1/baskets/:id/item/:id    | Updates a basket item on a given basket                  | Private |
